plugins/processors/BeagleBone_Blue/README.md, before:

# BeagleBone Blue Plugin

## Hardware Setup

### Install Debian Image

Download: https://rcn-ee.net/rootfs/bb.org/testing/2019-01-13/stretch-console/bone-debian-9.6-console-armhf-2019-01-13-1gb.img.xz

Flash the Debian image to a microSD card using Etcher (https://etcher.io). Then insert the microSD into the BeagleBone Blue and power it on.

### Connect to the BeagleBone Blue

If you have not connected the BeagleBone Blue to your computer via microUSB, do so now. Lights on the board should start flashing. Once LED 0 begins flashing in a heartbeat pattern, the board is ready.

Now we will log into the BeagleBone Blue via SSH. The default username and password are:

* Username: **debian**
* Password: **temppwd**

----

**For MacOS and Linux**
```
ssh debian@192.168.6.2
```
When prompted, enter **temppwd** as the password for the debian account.

**For Windows**

I prefer to use PuTTY to connect to **192.168.7.2** using the default credentials above.

----

We will now allow the debian user to **sudo** without needing to enter the password subsequent times.

```
echo "debian ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL" | sudo tee -a /etc/sudoers.d/debian >/dev/null
```

Now would be a good time to change the password for our debian user to something more secure.

```
passwd
```

### Connect to WiFi

Next we are going to connect the BeagleBone Blue to our local Wi-Fi network. For the next command, we will need the SSID of the network.

```
sudo -s connmanctl services | grep "<your SSID>" | grep -Po 'wifi_[^ ]+'
```

This command will output a hash like the following.
```
$ sudo -s connmanctl services | grep "My Wi-Fi Network" | grep -Po 'wifi_[^ ]+'
wifi_8030dc047131_536e7964657227732057692d4669204e6574776f726b_managed_psk
```

Now we will use the hash to configure our Wi-Fi connection. Make sure to type each line carefully; do not copy/paste.
```
$ sudo chmod -R 777 /var/lib/connman/
$ cat >/var/lib/connman/wifi.config
[service_<your hash>]
Type = wifi
Security = wpa2
Name = <your SSID>
Passphrase = <your Wi-Fi password>
```

After entering your passphrase, `Ctrl-D` to quit the prompt. Then type `exit`.

A green light should turn on to show that Wi-Fi is working. The BeagleBone Blue is now connected to the Wi-Fi network and its ip address can be found using
```
ip addr show wlan0
```

### Update and Install Available Software

Now that the BeagleBone Blue is connected to Wi-Fi, we can perform the following steps:
1. Update software onboard
```bash
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get -y dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get install -y cpufrequtils git
```
2. Update scripts
```bash
cd /opt/scripts && git pull
```
3. Specify real-time kernel
```bash
sudo /opt/scripts/tools/update_kernel.sh --lts-4_19 --bone-rt-channel
```
4. Specify device tree binary to be used at startup
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/#dtb=/dtb=am335x-boneblue.dtb/g' /boot/uEnv.txt
```
5. Set clock frequency
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/GOVERNOR="ondemand"/GOVERNOR="performance"/g' /etc/init.d/cpufrequtils
```
6. Adjust bb-wl18xx-wlan0.service
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/RestartSec=5/RestartSec=1/g' /lib/systemd/system/bb-wl18xx-wlan0.service
```
7. Maximize the microSD card's existing partition (which is /dev/mmcblk0p1)
```
sudo /opt/scripts/tools/grow_partition.sh
```
8. Reboot
```
sudo reboot
```
## ArduPilot Setup

Now we will configure the BeagleBone Blue for use with ardupilot.
#### 1. Create the ArduPilot environment configuration file.
```bash
sudo vim /etc/default/ardupilot
```
Or:
```
sudoedit /ect/default/ardupilot
```
Then paste into the file your configuration values and save. Below is an example of a valid configuration.
```bash
TELEM1="-C /dev/ttyO1"
TELEM2="-A udp:<target IP address>:14550"
GPS="-B /dev/ttyS2"
```
Switches A-F are defaulted to the following protocols and can be individually configured as shown in the example above.
```bash
Switch -A  -->  "Console", SERIAL0, default 115200
Switch -B  -->  "GPS", SERIAL3, default 57600
Switch -C  -->  "Telem1", SERIAL1, default 57600
Switch -D  -->  "Telem2", SERIAL2, default 38400
Switch -E  -->  Unnamed, SERIAL4, default 38400
Switch -F  -->  Unnamed, SERIAL5, default 57600
```
Consult the official ArduPilot documentation for more details on the various serial ports: http://ardupilot.org/plane/docs/parameters.html?highlight=parameters

#### 2. Next, we'll create the ArduPilot systemd service files.

* **ArduCopter** */lib/systemd/system/arducopter.service*
```bash
[Unit]
Description=ArduCopter Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arduplane.service ardurover.service antennatracker.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/arducopter $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

* **ArduPlane** */lib/systemd/system/arduplane.service*

```bash
[Unit]
Description=ArduPlane Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arducopter.service ardurover.service antennatracker.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/arduplane $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target  
```

* **ArduRover** */lib/systemd/system/ardurover.service*

```bash
[Unit]
Description=ArduRover Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arducopter.service arduplane.service antennatracker.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/ardurover $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

* **AntennaTracker** */lib/systemd/system/antennatracker.service*

```bash
[Unit]
Description=AntennaTracker Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arducopter.service arduplane.service ardurover.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/antennatracker $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

#### 3. Create a new directory for hardware configuration files.
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /usr/bin/ardupilot
```
Create the hardware configuration file: */usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw*
```
#!/bin/bash
# aphw
# ArduPilot hardware configuration.

/bin/echo 80 >/sys/class/gpio/export
/bin/echo out >/sys/class/gpio/gpio80/direction
/bin/echo 1 >/sys/class/gpio/gpio80/value
/bin/echo pruecapin_pu >/sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P8_15_pinmux/state
```

Lines 5 to 7 switch on power to the BBBlue's +5V servo rail - i.e. for when you're using servos. Not necessary for ESCs.

Line 8 enables the PRU.

Use `sudo chmod 0755 /usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw` to set permissions for this file.

#### 4. Download the ArduCopter, ArduPlane, etc. executables, built specifically for the BeagleBone Blue's architecture.
* **ArduCopter** (http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduCopter/)
```bash
cd ~/
mkdir ArduCopter
cd ArduCopter/
wget http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduCopter/arducopter-3_5_4
sudo cp arducopter-3_5_4 /usr/bin/ardupilot/
```
* **ArduPlane** (http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduPlane/)
```bash
cd ~/
mkdir ArduPlane
cd ArduPlane/
wget http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduPlane/arduplane-3_8_3
sudo cp arduplane-3_8_3 /usr/bin/ardupilot/
```
* **ArduRover** (http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduRover/)
```bash
cd ~/
mkdir ArduRover
cd ArduRover/
wget http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduRover/ardurover
sudo cp ardurover /usr/bin/ardupilot/
```
Once downloaded and copied to the `/usr/bin/ardupilot` directory, make sure to set proper permissions: 
```
sudo chmod 0755 /usr/bin/ardupilot/a*
```
#### 5. Start up ArduPilot
Choose your flavor of ArduPilot and start it up with `systemctl`
```
sudo systemctl enable arducopter.service
```
Or:
```
sudo systemctl enable arduplane.service
```
Or:
```
sudo systemctl enable ardurover.service
```
Or:
```
sudo systemctl enable antennatracker.service
```
After a reboot, you should see a flashing red LED which means everything is working as expected.

You can use `systemctl` to start and stop the ArduPilot service whenever you like.
```
sudo systemctl disable ...
sudo systemctl start ...
sudo systemctl stop ...
```

Commit message:

~ Updated misinformation in setting up config files in BBBlue README ~ Added some clarification to the documentation as well

plugins/processors/BeagleBone_Blue/README.md, after:

# BeagleBone Blue Plugin

## Hardware Setup

### Install Debian Image

Download: https://rcn-ee.net/rootfs/bb.org/testing/2019-01-13/stretch-console/bone-debian-9.6-console-armhf-2019-01-13-1gb.img.xz

Flash the Debian image to a microSD card using Etcher (https://etcher.io). Then insert the microSD into the BeagleBone Blue and power it on.

### Connect to the BeagleBone Blue

If you have not connected the BeagleBone Blue to your computer via microUSB, do so now. Lights on the board should start flashing. Once LED 0 begins flashing in a heartbeat pattern, the board is ready.

Now we will log into the BeagleBone Blue via SSH. The default username and password are:

* Username: **debian**
* Password: **temppwd**

----

**For MacOS and Linux**
```
ssh debian@192.168.6.2
```
When prompted, enter **temppwd** as the password for the debian account.

**For Windows**

I prefer to use PuTTY to connect to **192.168.7.2** using the default credentials above.

----

We will now allow the debian user to **sudo** without needing to enter the password subsequent times.

```
echo "debian ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL" | sudo tee -a /etc/sudoers.d/debian >/dev/null
```

Now would be a good time to change the password for our debian user to something more secure.

```
passwd
```

### Connect to WiFi

Next we are going to connect the BeagleBone Blue to our local Wi-Fi network. For the next command, we will need the SSID of the network.

```
sudo -s connmanctl services | grep "<your SSID>" | grep -Po 'wifi_[^ ]+'
```

This command will output a hash like the following.
```
$ sudo -s connmanctl services | grep "My Wi-Fi Network" | grep -Po 'wifi_[^ ]+'
wifi_8030dc047131_536e7964657227732057692d4669204e6574776f726b_managed_psk
```

Now we will use the hash to configure our Wi-Fi connection. Make sure to type each line carefully; do not copy/paste.
```
$ sudo chmod -R 777 /var/lib/connman/
$ cat >/var/lib/connman/<your SSID>-psk.config
[service_<your hash>]
Type = wifi
Security = wpa2
Name = <your SSID>
Passphrase = <your Wi-Fi password>
```

After entering your passphrase, `Ctrl-D` to quit the prompt. Then type `exit`. You can create many of these `<your SSID.config>-psk.config` files for each different network you want your BeagleBone to join. As long as it follows the same format, `connmanctl` will include it in it's automatic wifi discovery and connection search.

A green light should turn on to show that Wi-Fi is working. The BeagleBone Blue is now connected to the Wi-Fi network and its ip address can be found using
```
ip addr show wlan0
```

### Update and Install Available Software

Now that the BeagleBone Blue is connected to Wi-Fi, we can perform the following steps:
1. Update software onboard
```bash
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get -y dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get install -y cpufrequtils git
```
2. Update scripts
```bash
cd /opt/scripts && git pull
```
3. Specify real-time kernel
```bash
sudo /opt/scripts/tools/update_kernel.sh --lts-4_19 --bone-rt-channel
```
4. Specify device tree binary to be used at startup
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/#dtb=/dtb=am335x-boneblue.dtb/g' /boot/uEnv.txt
```
5. Set clock frequency
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/GOVERNOR="ondemand"/GOVERNOR="performance"/g' /etc/init.d/cpufrequtils
```
6. Adjust bb-wl18xx-wlan0.service
```bash
sudo sed -i 's/RestartSec=5/RestartSec=1/g' /lib/systemd/system/bb-wl18xx-wlan0.service
```
7. Maximize the microSD card's existing partition (which is /dev/mmcblk0p1)
```
sudo /opt/scripts/tools/grow_partition.sh
```
8. Reboot
```
sudo reboot
```
## ArduPilot Setup

Now we will configure the BeagleBone Blue for use with ardupilot.
#### 1. Create the ArduPilot environment configuration file.
```bash
sudo vim /etc/default/ardupilot
```
Or:
```
sudoedit /ect/default/ardupilot
```
Then paste into the file your configuration values and save. Below is an example of a valid configuration.
```bash
TELEM1="-C /dev/ttyO1"
TELEM2="-A udp:<target IP address>:14550"
GPS="-B /dev/ttyS2"
```
Setting up TELEM2 this way allows your computer to discover the BeagleBone Blue automatically in Mission Planner or QGroundControl over Wi-Fi. This can be very useful during debugging

The BeagleBone Blue allows for configuration of 6 different switches with ArduPilot Blue. Switches A-F are defaulted to the following protocols and can be individually configured as shown in the example above.
```bash
Switch -A  -->  "Console", SERIAL0, default 115200
Switch -B  -->  "GPS", SERIAL3, default 57600
Switch -C  -->  "Telem1", SERIAL1, default 57600
Switch -D  -->  "Telem2", SERIAL2, default 38400
Switch -E  -->  Unnamed, SERIAL4, default 38400
Switch -F  -->  Unnamed, SERIAL5, default 57600
```
Consult the official ArduPilot documentation for more details on the various serial ports: http://ardupilot.org/plane/docs/parameters.html?highlight=parameters

The config file we created above will be used in the next set of service file configurations. This way, each flavor of ArduPilot can be configured the same way and set to run on startup.

#### 2. Next, we'll create the ArduPilot systemd service files.

The service files we are about to create will allow ArduPilot to run on boot. Notice in the service files below the references to the `/etc/default/ardupilot` config file we created above. Setting the EnvironmentFile allows us to reference the configuration variables we set above and use them to start the ardupilot service.

* **ArduCopter** */lib/systemd/system/arducopter.service*
```bash
[Unit]
Description=ArduCopter Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arduplane.service ardurover.service antennatracker.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/arducopter $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

* **ArduPlane** */lib/systemd/system/arduplane.service*

```bash
[Unit]
Description=ArduPlane Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arducopter.service ardurover.service antennatracker.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/arduplane $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target  
```

* **ArduRover** */lib/systemd/system/ardurover.service*

```bash
[Unit]
Description=ArduRover Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arducopter.service arduplane.service antennatracker.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/ardurover $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

<!-- * **AntennaTracker** */lib/systemd/system/antennatracker.service*

```bash
[Unit]
Description=AntennaTracker Service
After=networking.service
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
Conflicts=arducopter.service arduplane.service ardurover.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/ardupilot
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/antennatracker $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=1

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
``` -->

#### 3. Create a new directory for hardware configuration files.
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /usr/bin/ardupilot
```
Create the hardware configuration file: */usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw*
```
#!/bin/bash
# aphw
# ArduPilot hardware configuration.

/bin/echo 80 >/sys/class/gpio/export
/bin/echo out >/sys/class/gpio/gpio80/direction
/bin/echo 1 >/sys/class/gpio/gpio80/value
/bin/echo pruecapin_pu >/sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P8_15_pinmux/state
```

Lines 5 to 7 switch on power to the BBBlue's +5V servo rail - i.e. for when you're using servos. Not necessary for ESCs.

Line 8 enables the PRU.

Use `sudo chmod 0755 /usr/bin/ardupilot/aphw` to set permissions for this file.

#### 4. Download the ArduCopter, ArduPlane, etc. executables, built specifically for the BeagleBone Blue's architecture.
* **ArduCopter** (http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduCopter/)
```bash
cd ~/
mkdir ArduCopter
cd ArduCopter/
wget http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduCopter/arducopter-3_5_4
sudo cp arducopter-3_5_4 /usr/bin/ardupilot/arducopter
```
* **ArduPlane** (http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduPlane/)
```bash
cd ~/
mkdir ArduPlane
cd ArduPlane/
wget http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduPlane/arduplane-3_8_3
sudo cp arduplane-3_8_3 /usr/bin/ardupilot/arduplane
```
* **ArduRover** (http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduRover/)
```bash
cd ~/
mkdir ArduRover
cd ArduRover/
wget http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/ArduRover/ardurover
sudo cp ardurover /usr/bin/ardupilot/ardurover
```
Once downloaded and copied to the `/usr/bin/ardupilot` directory, make sure to set proper permissions: 
```
sudo chmod 0755 /usr/bin/ardupilot/a*
```
#### 5. Start up ArduPilot
Choose your flavor of ArduPilot and start it up with `systemctl`
```
sudo systemctl enable arducopter.service
```
Or:
```
sudo systemctl enable arduplane.service
```
Or:
```
sudo systemctl enable ardurover.service
```
<!-- Or:
```
sudo systemctl enable antennatracker.service
``` -->
After a reboot, you should see a flashing red LED which means everything is working as expected.

You can use `systemctl` to start and stop the ArduPilot service whenever you like.
```
sudo systemctl disable ...
sudo systemctl start ...
sudo systemctl stop ...
```
